# Dataing (Design)

> **September 2023** - **April 2025**

> _Note: These are one-half of my responsibilities at Dataing. For my engineering responsibilities, please see here._

### _Launched_: **[April 2025](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/dataing/id6478563884)**

**Dataing** is an AI matchmaking service, with a focus on dating. Connect your social media to let _Cupid AI_ **analyze your social media** and **match you** with people you’ll find interesting.

I **cofounded the company** with CEO Mark Kilaghbian.

I both **designed** & **developed** the initial **webapp MVP**; developed our **v1 backend dashboard**; developed our **design system**; developed the **Waitlist webapp**; spearheaded **mobile design** & **frontend development**; and **hired**, **trained**, & **led** intern designers & engineers.

I **developed a Figma plugin** for exporting designs as SwiftUI code—w*ithout AI translation*. A custom parser was built specifically for our design system. Much of the core SwiftUI standard is implemented. Designs are fully pixel & layout accurate from Figma -> SwiftUI.

During 2024, I side-hustled upwards of 40-80 hours/week to afford to work on this project. This takes a toll on creative energy & eats into creative time. I feel this project represents my perseverance and ability to stick through tough situations while performing my leadership & creative duties accordingly.

#### Key responsibilities:

- **Chief Product Officer**
- **Head of Product**
- **Head of Design**
- **Idea-to-product**
- **Directed UI design, iOS frontend, & marketing design teams**
- **Trained and led design interns**
- **Mentored junior engineers**
- **Designed the logo, wordmark, & Cupid Bot (cartoon) character**
- **Designed & implemented our design system**
- **Designed marketing/branding assets**
- **Built a Figma-to-SwiftUI export tool (custom parser, non-AI)**
- **Developed and shipped web MVP, Waitlist, Website, & iOS beta**
- **Shaped brand identity and visual direction**
- **Created internal tools to accelerate design-engineering workflow**
- **Created marketing, branding assets; pitch decks; character design**

#### Tools used:

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/)
- [Sketch](https://www.sketch.com/) (initial mockups)
- [Adobe Creative Cloud](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud.html)
- [Notion](https://www.notion.so/)
- [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira) (Dev + Design Teams)
- [Trello](https://trello.com/) (Marketing Team)
- [Google Docs](https://workspace.google.com/products/docs/)
- [Google Sheets](https://workspace.google.com/products/sheets/)

## Leadership & Mentorship

My goal as a leader is to elevate my team, smartly delegate according to core competencies, provide immediate support, and remove friction.

I develop & implement systems so my team has a collective understanding of their individual responsibilities against our overall objectives.

My purpose is to maximize human capital efficiency & maintain quality output.

- Owned our Notion board, our knowledgebase hub. It contained onboarding for design & marketing; guides (setup, maintenance) for various platforms (Figma, OpenAI, Azure, Google Cloud); and other resources. All fully-formatted, organized, & beautiful.

- 100% intern retention rate on $0 budget. All 7 design interns (UI & marketing, 1 frontend) completed their full 6-month term, with several choosing to extend their internship. Intern attendance and alma-maters include USC, NYU, & UCLA.

- Delegated tasks & ownership of key features. I believe fostering an environment of trust builds confidence amongst team members.

- I made myself available 24/7–including weekends–to answer questions and support interns on their duties.

- I champion a culture of accountability, self-improvement, and innovative-thinking with hands-on mentorship.

- Provided cross-discipline growth sessions that I tailored to individual intern paths. I enjoyed translating my skills & knowledge in a way that complemented an interns current abilities. I wanted them to stay challenged & confident, while continuing to grow during their time with us.

- Developed case studies for interns: physical properties of light & glass; gradient composition/blending & color spaces; character design basics; Figma advanced techniques & social content composition; “design-a-thon” weekend challenge to research an app’s major feature (aka TikTok’s scrolling video feed), produce design specifications for the feature, then produce a design based on specifications from the write-up.

- Interviewed dozens of UI designers, frontend engineers to determine their apptitude. I hand-screened hundreds of potential candidates’ resumes & portfolios before determining a cohort to move forward. Traits such as collaborative ability (focus on distributed teams as Dataing was remote); conceptual process & strong principles in innovative thinking; design process & tooling; decisiveness and previous level of project-ownership; and a style that aligned with our branding.

- Hiring was a fun challenge. I feel the design landscape has changed since I graduated. I found the focus is placed heavily on research and process/execution, rather than raw design or technical skills. Most every candidate I spoke with was both a joy to get to know and a talented designer in their own right. I feel very positive about the talent pool, as well as my ability to recognize great hires after this experience.

- Developed a suite of technical flow-chart elements to effectively communicate user flows, current development progress status, and future goals/sprints in a single visual graph format consumable by design, engineering, marketing, & stakeholders alike. I wanted a way to bridge our increasing responsibilities and distributed tasks in an intuitive, easily digestible format for anyone on the team to enrich themselves.

## iOS App

- Native SwiftUI frontend.
- Grew the team to 2 UI design interns, 1 UX research/concept intern, 1 SwiftUI frontend intern.
- Directed design team and collaborated with development team to realize the product vision.
- Defined design tokens, abstracted key UI patterns into a highly reusable design system.
- Presented product demos & progress updates to stakeholders.
- Organized cross-functional updates to align the entire team during weekly all-hands meetings.
- Aligned the team around weekly sprint goals and product priorities using Jira.
- Ran weekly meetings to align engineering and design teams. Spearheaded feature clarity and smooth handoffs.
- Ran biweekly design meetings to align design team on objectives, offer guidance on tasks, and provide mentoring to aid in increasing our interns’ abilities overall.
- Spearheaded UX research, using phone screenshots & Mobbin to document competition.
- Produced internal research documents detailing competitor features for the top-6 dating apps, with & without advertised AI-features (at the time).
- Engaged students on-campus (UCLA, USC, UCSD) to gauge their dating app familiarity, experience dating in-real life, their goals in dating & lifestyle, as well as their general requests to improve the dating scene.
- Coordinated language & messaging with marketing team (Figma).
- Led initiatives to produce several fully-interactive Figma prototypes. Full-app prototypes to test flows, as well as single/multi-feature to test interactivity. Both solo & team-produced prototypes.

## Marketing Design

- Collaborated with executive team to produce our pitch deck. Landed several key funding meetings. Many comments surrounded the engaging visuals & message clarity. I developed a story for the deck: our company from inception, to launch, to growth and beyond. Infusing a handful of styles from flat illustrations to modern material-based 3D fused with glassmorphism to delight the viewer and enhance the usual pitch deck experience. “I wanted to keep going just to see the next slide.”
- Produced 7-page Dataing Brand Book. Included color palette, fonts, type guidelines, usage rules, messaging & tone, and examples/templates for digital content.
- Marketing guidelines were designed to be as simple as possible to implement. I wanted a system that was hard to get wrong. I landed on a system with fractional spacing & sizing. The less bullet points, the better.
- Produced color palette, font, & type presets for Figma, Photoshop, Illustrator, & Canva. This to ensure our system was actually being used.
- Collaborated with marketing & design teams to ensure brand consistency across socials. Implemented a multi-party review system for ensuring our brand tone & visual identity remained consistent throughout each post.
- Audited assets & content for visual and messaging consistency, providing refinements to maintain brand integrity.

## Design System

- Developed a primitive & component-based architecture for our design system from scratch. Scalable & totally flexible.
- Redefined the traditional token-based approach for a new primitives-based approach to enable a simpler, more intuitive way of inheritance for reusable design properties.
- Defined hundreds of primitives in Figma across all token categories: color, sizing, spacing, effects, & typography. Organized into separate libraries consumable by the design team.
- Primitive libraries were used to build a collection of intermediate components, called modules, that lack any functionality. Modules group primitives into a layout. Think a profile photo container with a default icon.
- Modules & primitive libraries were used to build out the component suite. Components group together modules and primitives to include functionality and interactivity. Think a button that displays your profile photo and opens a dropdown when you tap it.
- Defined a rigid, yet expressive module structure–which extends to a rigid, yet expressive component structure. A completed component design structure will mirror the architecture of the component implementation in code–a 100% accurate representation of the component as a design, without sacrificing a designer’s flexibility.
- The design system was used in designing & developing all components inside the production Dataing app.
- Fully automated the translation of our design system from Figma to code by developing our Figma2Swift generator.

## Figma2Swift

- I built a Figma plugin that reads the Figma API tree and renders to a SwiftUI component structure.
- Facilitates rapid, pixel-and-layout-perfect translations of our design system.
- The parser design is directly influenced by component structure defined in the design system.
- 100% of the initial app frontend was generated from our design system.
- Components were generated inside Figma using the Figma2Swift plugin I developed–zero AI involved.
- Implementation with our backend services took 3 days.
- Components are fully reusable.
- 100% pixel accuracy translating from Figma.

## MVP

- 2 months idea-to-product
- Designed & developed front-end using React & Tailwind.
- There are no high-quality MVP design fragments; the MVP was designed and developed simultaneously.
- OpenAI API, Azure Services hosted deployment, Vercel hosted frontend.
- Sleek, native “Apple”-look & feel.
- Influences from glassmorphism.
- When I design interfaces, I imagine elements in the physical-space, with material properties.
- A glass surface with an LED-strip lining its outer borders. When you interact, the LEDs light-up.
- Black-ink etched lettering on clear-coated acrylic.
- A foggy pane of frosted glass.
- Handwritten swipe-gestures for a native-feeling experience on mobile; swipe to delete threads, swipe the sidebar open/closed, swipe popup sheets closed, etc.
- GPT-based AI chatbot w/ rooms/threads; fully-featured AI chatbot (regenerate message, edit previous messages, etc.); message streaming.
- “Data cards” visually represent items Cupid AI has analyzed from your social media.
- Mobile-first design; fully responsive; all features work across mobile & desktop.
- Custom react-spring animations.

## Waitlist

- 3 weeks idea-to-product.
- Check it out at beta.dataing.io. (Don’t mind the ominous, blue AI-generated character). You need to sign up to access the Waitlist product.
- 500 signups 3 weeks post-launch.
- Repurposed tech from MVP including Data cards, backend services, and visual styling.
- Referral code generator; users can generate referral codes with custom URL links that they can share. Users can view the amount of signups created using their referral code.
- Simple, single column app design.
- Custom react-spring animations.
- Coordinated language & messaging of FAQ section with marketing team.

## Website

- 2 days idea-to-product.
- Check it out at dataing.io.
- Quick-and-dirty landing page & contact page.
- Custom GLSL shader maps luminosity values to a color set & a character set for an iridescent, binary “matrix”-effect. The shader is applied to a `<video>` element.
- Custom react-spring animations.
- Coordinated language & messaging with marketing team.
